---
layout: page
title: The DS Journey Begins
subtitle: Passionate About Data

When I was 13 years old, I used to dial up Charles Schwab every day to get the prices on a list of stock that somehow seemed interesting to me. This was high tech… the alternative was to wait until the next days newspaper where the closing prices would all be listed. I was sure that having the information before other people would somehow give me an advantage. Upon receiving the information, I would use my pencil to meticulously mark the prices on graph paper. Taking great care to differentiate between 3/4 and 7/8 (back then prices were reported in fractions). Looking back, this marked the beginning of a life long interest in data.

From this point, I became interested in other groups of data. I specifically remember, waiting over twelve hours, for a spreadsheet to run, that I felt confident, would conclusively predict the winner of any number of upcoming NBA match ups. Against the spread, no less. I mean how could it fail? I had created all kinds of formulas that calculated data that included important stats such as, weekend vs weekday records, shooting percentages, scores, uniforms worn, and many others. Interestingly, after much testing, I was able to correctly predict the winner approximately 45% of the time. Rather than admit defeat, I immediately made it known to all my friends and anyone else that would listen, that I had developed a system to reliably predict the loser, of any NBA game, a remarkable 55% of the time. Alas, the monetization of such prime data proved harder than I had imagined. As I recall, I ended up owing some guy named Big Neil around $500 dollars and working extra shifts as a lifeguard to stay on his good side. (seemed important at the time)

Fast forward a couple of decades. I am the Vice President of Sales at a successful advertising agency and still enamored with data. I’ve discovered and mastered Sales Force and thrive on the data it produces. Based on metrics, I know who is working most efficiently, who will sell the most, and rarely forecast sales incorrectly. This data stuff is great! Despite the success, I wasn’t happy and, after discussing this with my boss, decided it was time to move on. Pleasantly, I left on very good terms and actually didn’t leave until almost a month after I gave my notice.

Fortunately, I got a great job offer very quickly. A job as a Financial Planner with one of the largest firms in the country. The position came with a very nice guaranteed income, a great office, plenty of support, and was something I really thought I wanted to do. However, for some reason, I just wasn’t as excited about starting the new job as I thought I would be. This got me thinking. Maybe it was time to do something else. Is that possible? I’ve been in sales and sales management most of my adult life. Furthermore, what would I do if I wasn’t in sales?

After quite a bit of thought, going to various meet ups, and talking to friends in various industries — I decided that I wanted a career dealing with data. Why not? It’s something I’ve always loved, I have a little money in the bank, and I know I can always get a sales job if I need to. Having taught myself a bit of programming and being very familiar with sales data, I set out to find a path that would lead me into the new profession. After comparing all of the options, I decided on a seven month online data science program at Lambda School. Having completed the first week, I can say that I am fairly certain that I made the right choice. The material is sometimes very difficult and frequently makes me wish I had actually gone to class and paid attention during my high school and college days, but, I love it. Dealing with data all day long, doing the assignments, meeting with instructors and peers is really enjoyable and I love the challenge.

Gratefully, I have come a long way since I was 13, measuring squares on graph paper, and certainly have quite a ways to go. I look forward to learning and calling myself a Data Scientist (mainly because the title sounds really impressive to my son) and chronicling the journey along the way. Thank you for reading  — please feel free to get in touch.

